======================
Workshops at IWCS 2015
======================

:date: 2014-11-01 11:27
:category: Workshops
:news_headline: Accepted Workshops posted

IWCS 2015 will include 5 associated workshops, held on 14th April 2015.

.. contents::

ISA-11: the 11th Joint ACL-ISO Workshop on Interoperable Semantic Annotation
============================================================================

Organisers: Harry Bunt, Nancy Ide, Kiyong Lee, James Pustejovsky, Laurent Romary

Website: http://sigsem.uvt.nl/isa11/

ISA-11 is the eleventh edition of a series of joint workshops of the
ACL Special Interest Group in Semantics (SIGSEM) and the International
Organization of Standards ISO. ISA-workshops bring together experts in
the annotation of semantic information as expressed in text, speech,
gestures, graphics, video, images, and in communicative behaviour
where multiple modalities are combined. Examples of semantic
annotation include the markup of events, time, space, dialogue acts,
discourse relations, semantic roles, coreference and named entities,
for which the ISO organization pursues the establishment of annotation
standards in order to support the creation of interoperable semantic
resources.


MOMA: Models for Modality Annotation
====================================

Organisers: Malvina Nissim, Paola Pietandrea

Website: http://malvinanissim.github.io/moma2015/

The notion of modality involves a spectrum of phenomena that are
pervasive in language but far from being formalised. For an exhaustive
formalisation, a joint effort by computational, corpus, and formal
linguists as well as language typologists is required. The main aim of
this workshop is bringing together researchers from such fields,
towards the development of shared, stable annotation standards. We
believe IWCS would be an excellent venue for locating this kind of
workshop, as it has a strong tradition of bringing together linguistic
theory and implementation.


Language and Ontologies
=======================

Organisers: Roman Kutl√°k, Artemis Parvizi, Christina Unger

Website: http://langandonto.github.io/

With the growing importance of Semantic Web technologies, formal
ontologies are increasingly used by people with limited or no
background in formal logic, creating a significant interest in natural
and easily accessible front ends. In addition, the role of ontologies
in computational linguistics is recognised as crucial. Global interest
in these topics is witnessed by recent projects such as NeOn
(Lifecycle Support for Networked Ontologies), LEGO (Lexicon
Enhancement via the GOLD Ontology), SWAT (Semantic Web Authoring
Tool), PESCaDO (Personalized Environmental Service Configuration and
Delivery Orchestration), CO-ODE, and WhatIf (What if... questions for
Ontology Authoring). 
This workshop aims to create a forum for the many ways in which
research on ontologies and research in computational linguistics
relate to each other. It aims at bringing together researchers from
different communities, including controlled languages and natural
language interfaces as well as ontology languages and linguistic
ontologies, in order to identify common interests, exploit synergies,
and share methods, tools and resources.


IMC: Modelling Interactive Meaning Construction in Dialogue
===========================================================

Organisers: Ruth Kempson, Robin Cooper, Matthew Purver

Despite being the mainstay of our language experience, the data of
conversational dialogue pose very considerable challenges for semantic
modelling.  They violate expectations provided by standard frameworks,
with apparently incomplete and/or highly context-dependent fragments
widespread. Conventional grammar frameworks are poorly set up to
reflect these dynamics, but the goal of defining models able to
reflect them is an active research area.  However, dialogue phenomena
and data provide us with evidence about intended and understood
meaning which can help define more suitable approaches, either through
inspection or through computational methods (especially given the
recent progress in distributional and inferential methods for deriving
semantic representations and parsers from context). This workshop
brings together researchers addressing these issues and assesses the
significance of this ongoing work both for approaches to semantics and
for computational modelling.


ADS: Advances in Distributional Semantics
=========================================

Organisers: Eva Maria Vecchi, Mehrnoosh Sadrzadeh

Distributional semantics is based on the idea that words that often
occur in the same context have similar meanings; this idea is
formalised using vector spaces and reasoned about using linear
algebra and statistical methods. In such models, basis vectors are
contexts and vectors represent meanings of words. Various distance
measures between the word vectors (e.g. geometric and Euclidean) are
used to reason about word similarity. Recently there has been a lot
of focus on a number of extensions: integrating machine learning
techniques (e.g. neural networks) to improve vector estimation;
compositionality of phrases and sentences; extended experimental
tasks; and extended mathematical models and algorithms. This workshop
aims to bring together researchers of the field who have answers for
the above questions, who have either advanced experience with the
experimental side of the field, or have worked on the more complex
composition operators, their ramifications, and the optimisation
techniques that would help implement them.

